# TQ

This is a short, one-block program that plays a numeric version of the game "Twenty Questions." The idea is that the player guesses a number between zero and 1048575 (2<sup>20</sup> - 1) and the program will determine that number.

After loading and starting the program, the program will type out its first guess, always 524288, followed by a few horizontal tabs. The player must then type `0` if the guess is too low or `1` if the guess is too high, followed by the Tab and "S" keys. The program will grind on that for a couple of seconds and then type out its next guess, and so on.

The guessing will always proceed through 20 iterations. The last number the program types should be the player's guess. The bell will ring and the system will halt at this point. Occasionally, the program will guess the correct number early in the process. In that case, the player can either stop the game at that point or respond _either_ that the number is too high or too low. In the latter case the program will eventually guess the correct number.

If the player lies to the program about guesses being too high or too low, the program will finish without guessing the correct number.

This was User's Projects program #209. It has a brief write-up in the [Index to User's Projects, Volume I](http://bitsavers.org/pdf/bendix/g-15/User_Projects_Vol1.pdf) document starting on page 203 (PDF page 225).

## TQ.pti

An executable tape image for the TQ program. This image is not bootable. You should have previously initialized the system using a tape that contains the number track. This image was provided by Paul Pierce and is included here with his permission.

## TQ-Disassembly.txt

A disassembly of the TQ tape image above generated by https://github.com/pkimpel/retro-g15/blob/master/software/tools/Paper-Tape-Disassembler.html.
